The surface area of the opportunity we
have to latch on is getting more and
more fine which means that the hook that
we need to use has to get more and more
sharp.
>> Lulu Chang Maservi is one of the
sharpest minds in communications today.
Having been CCO and EVP of corporate
affairs at Activision Blizzard and VP of
comms at Substack, she is now the
creator of Rostra, the only advisory
firm focused on founder comms. Lulu is
known as the go-to strategist for CEOs,
founders, and policymakers navigating
highstakes moments. In this episode, she
explains how to grab attention in a
noisy world filled with AI slop, appeal
to human psychology, and build trust
instead of farming engagement.
>> If someone is fighting you with stories,
you have to fight with stories. Under
the statistics are more powerful
stories. If you're trying to relieve
pressure, you don't get to change how
much force is coming at you, but you can
change the service area. You're not just
attacking me, you're attacking all of
us. The loss in trust, the loss in
future prospects, customers, employees
who defect, that recruit that doesn't
accept the job offer, it could add up to
billions. The three things for actually
making a difference with your story are
one, two, what are the right and then
lastly,
[Music]
>> Lulu, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> In a world that is so noisy, it's full
of AI generated content, there's uh
people trying to get your attention. How
do we get people to pay attention to us?
I think about this a lot because the
flood of just sheer content is
completely unrelenting and that people
are doing things all the time now too
like people are creating genuinely
interesting things with new tools where
it used to be so if you look at the
world of company launches it used to be
every few months there was some big
announcement or some new launch now it's
multiple a day every single day
including weekends and evenings and
holidays and so the way to stand out
from that I think is a few things one is
it's about human beings. We've always
gravitated to human beings and human
stories. And I think we gravitate to
that even more now because it gives you
something to care about that's not just
generic content. Like content is
infinite, but individual human
characters stand out from that. It gives
you a person to root for, gives you
something to get attached to. It gives
you a thing to care about. And so having
it be attached to a human um whether
it's a product launch or a company
launch or some some piece of information
having a human mascot represent it is
really important. Another is human
conviction. Like there's something
within us that responds to another
person's conviction. Like when you see
cult leaders being able to recruit or
terrorist group leaders being able to
recruit, their actual pitch on the
merits is horrible. It's like that meme
of like you get this and I get that and
it's like you get basically nothing,
poor pay, extremely poor prospects of
success, leave your family behind and I
get rights to your life and then also
maybe you die on the marriage. The pitch
is horrible. But there's something
within us that finds it really hard to
resist when someone is just looking us
in the eye and telling us with absolute
conviction that something is true. This
is why pathological liars are so
powerful and sociopaths are so powerful
because we can't resist the gravity of
someone telling us these things and if
they happen to be false then we're
actually very vulnerable to it. But we
have this vulnerability to human
conviction and you can't convey that
through any other means. There's like a
unique way that people can convey
conviction that makes us buy in. And
then another is having it play into some
kind of narrative arc. So, whatever
you're saying, if you just say it in a
vacuum, here's like a little pile of
facts that I drop in front of you. Well,
there's pile of facts, piles of facts
around as far as the eye can see in
every direction. But if I tell you that
this is part of something bigger and you
need to stay tuned, then it gives you
something to hang on to. So, this is
like the 101 nights shaherad. You know
the story. um she was going to be
beheaded and then she told a little bit
of a story and had to wait till the next
day and then told a little bit and then
after a thousand1 nights he was like you
know what great you can go made it this
far. Even journalists when they're
following a beat they try not to write
one news story as a standalone they try
to cover the narrative arc of something
that's happening. So when you see people
right now covering hires at Meta for
their new super intelligence, they're
they're covering what is the long-term
goal of this and how is it progressing
over time and what does it tell like
they're thinking of it as a 12 stories
that link together. And so all of this
put together means when you're trying to
cut through the noise, you tell it
through a human with extreme conviction
and you tie facts together in a chain
such that it forms this bigger narrative
that people feel compelled to follow.
How do we go about determining what that
narrative is?
>> The wrong way is here's what I want to
say. Here it is. Because the thing that
you you care about might not be what
anybody else is caring about. I think
the right way is to take two things. One
is here's what I care about. So like
think of it as a circle of information.
Here's what I care about and what I want
to say. Then there's another circle of
here's what the person I'm speaking to
cares about and what they're thinking
about and it's probably a little bit
different from what's on my mind. If it
were identical, then what's the point of
saying anything? But there's probably
going to be some overlap. And so what
people tend to say is the circle of
things that are on their mind and then
just put it out there and hope that
somebody latches on to it. The real
story to tell is what's in the center of
that van diagram. So, don't tell the
story that's in your circle because it
it's hard to get other people to care.
Don't tell the story that's in the other
person's circle because you don't get
anything out of it. It's not strategic.
Tell the story that's in the ven
diagram. And then once you meet them in
the ven diagram, you can kind of walk
them into the rest of your circle. You
give them a gateway drug.
>> That intuitively makes sense to me on a
onetoone basis. What about a one to many
where you're communicating with a group
of people whether they work at a company
whether they're society or at large.
>> I was actually thinking of it in terms
of one to many. I think it works really
well with one to many. The key is many
can't be infinite. The many can't be 8
1/2 billion people. That just doesn't
work because if you're talking to that
many people, if you're talking to the
whole wide world, you have to water down
your message so much that it becomes,
you know, a drop in the ocean. It is
just a nothing. The many should be the
people who work at my company or the
people who are really passionate about
robotics or the people who are really
worried about conflict with China. The
many has to be like an actual
circumscribed set of people. And then
once you have that circumscribed set of
people, then you think about what do all
those people have in common that people
outside of that circle don't necessarily
have in common. So let's say that you
are starting a new company and the
company is something to do with American
defense tech. It's something between
Palunteer and Anderel type of vibe and
you want to talk to people who are
really concerned about geopolitical
competition and rivalry with China. So
think about what are things that they
specifically are thinking about right
now. They're not thinking about your
company. So the circle of stuff that you
really want to talk about is like
marketing dril for your company. And
then the circle of things that they're
thinking about is if there is an
invasion of Taiwan, what might that look
like and how do we plan for it? But
there's an overlap in the ven diagram
where part of planning for it means
integrating the software that we are
making and and to join us and help us
build this so that we can be ready. And
so identifying that this is what they
care about, speaking about the overlap
part in terms of what they care about.
And once they're with you there, then
you can tell them, well, here's what
we're building and here's how we
approach software. And then they
actually already are with you. I think
that's a good way to approach it. Just
like picture the circles and then find
the overlap.
>> Do you think of that as sort of like an
API into people or is it positioning
something so that people can be
receptive to it and then at that point
once you've got a hook, you can pull
them along to sort of the message you
actually wanted to say?
>> Yeah. it's the API into their mind. Um,
or it's the gateway drug, whatever it
is, it's it's not just the thing you
want to say, it's the hook. You start
with the hook and then once the hook is
in, then you can do the reeling. But
some people are like, "Here's the fish
sandwich I'm going to make for dinner
before they think about what goes on the
hook and is any fish going to bite the
hook." So, the hook is probably the most
overlooked part, I would say, in order
of how much it matters. It's the hook,
then how you tell your story, and then
where you tell it. Most people get this
reversed where they spend an inordinate
amount of time thinking about where can
I go talk? What podcast can I go on? How
do I pitch Shane Parish? How do I get on
TV? Do I start a pod? Do I do a blog?
and they think about the form factor in
the medium and they don't think enough
about how can I become so interesting
that my distribution method is people
telling other people because they can't
get it out of their heads and they have
to it's it's it's in there and it's
tickling their brain and they have to
share it with their families and they
have to go have a conversation about it.
That is the most powerful most high
lever thing and nobody thinks about it.
>> I want to double click on that in one
second. I just want to come back to the
hook. Is that there's a lot of research
that seems to indicate that you have
sort of 12 secondsish
>> to get somebody's attention. Is that
what you mean by a hook?
>> I don't know about seconds because now a
lot of the way that people interact with
people that they don't know personally
is through these parasocial
relationships on the internet. Like
there's a lot of people who watch your
podcast who feel like they have a sense
of who you are. like they've created
they've created this model of you in
their minds that's this kind of like
weird chain homunculus that's sort of
resembling of you but not not the full
picture. They don't necessarily do that
through time spent with you. They see it
through your writing, your newsletter,
your clips. So if it's um time in
person, okay, maybe 12 seconds. If it's
time through a clip on the internet, I
would say like first 5 seconds they
decide whether they're going to keep
scrolling or not. Like less than five.
When you see the metrics, this is so
almost crass and pragmatic to start
talking about video metrics, but when
you see the video metrics of things
posted on social media, after 30
seconds, like 99% of people are gone,
right? And and you pay closer attention
to this than I do, so your your metrics
will be like more precise, but basically
in the first few seconds, it can drop
off precipitously.
People are just like scrolling. Like
when you see people looking at videos,
what do you picture? this or this.
>> Yeah,
>> it's actually more the latter.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you get like a couple seconds. I bet
our attention span is going down to who
whoever did the study that came up with
the 12 seconds. I would love to see them
redo it and see if that's gone down to
10 or eight or something as our patience
has worn. And then in terms of text,
because some of the ways that people get
to know you is through your writing. I
don't know about seconds, but it's like
the first paragraph. For an email, it's
a subject line. For a tweet, it's the
first line, first sentence, the hook. So
like the opportunity like the surface
area of the opportunity we have to latch
on is getting more and more fine which
means that the hook that we need to use
has to get more and more sharp.
>> So should that hook be like emotion?
Should it be tension? Should it be
stakes like you get invested in reading
this? Should it be like what's in it for
me?
>> How do you think about that?
>> It could be any of the above. The most
common ones that I've just observed
online are humor, curiosity, or some
strong emotion. It can be a wow emotion.
It can be a WTF emotion, or it could be
here's a topic that I'm already thinking
about, and this is going to give me some
new angle on the topic. Depends on who
you're talking to. Like if you're
talking to brain rots, it might be a
little bit different from if you're
talking to AI researchers or if you're
talking to academics. You can use
slightly different things, but but it's
humor, curiosity,
uh strong emotion,
outrage, shock, surprise, or they're
about to learn something about a topic
that they're already following.
>> I want to go back to be interesting.
What does that mean? Like it it sounds
very simple, but you can't go to
somebody and say, "Hey, be more
interesting."
>> It's be interesting to whom? So, all of
these things I I hear sometimes in a
vacuum. So it's like uh say the message
and and we've talked about this like
who's saying the message and to whom and
depending on who's the messenger and
who's the receiver, the nature of the
message completely changes. It's the
same with be interesting. So what's
interesting to one person might not be
interesting to another. And if you're
very clear on who you're speaking to,
then you can make it maximally
interesting for them, which will mean
tradeoffs and making it less interesting
for someone that you don't care about.
Um, if you're trying to be somewhat
interesting to everybody, now you're
back to the eight billion people problem
where it's so so so minutely interesting
in order to capture everybody that it's
actually marginal. It just like eances
into the air. So once you identify who
are the people you're talking about, the
way you're interesting is to speak to
their interests. If you know what are
their cultural and intellectual
erogynous own, what do they care about?
What are they interested in? What are
they thinking about? then link it from
there. So, at the bottom of all of this,
the way to be interesting is to find
that sliver of the ven diagram overlap
of what you're trying to say and what
they already care about and meet them
there. And if you misfire and you end up
somewhere else, then you're not doing
your job as a good storyteller. or if
you misidentify the audience. I would
say the number one mistake is
misidentifying the audience and trying
to speak to the general public and then
the the narrow sliver of people that
super duper matter to you in that
moment, whether it's people you're
trying to hire, people you're trying to
even befriend, whatever your goal is,
that you miss them because you've just
sprayed it out into the air.
>> Why do you think a lot of corporations
and governments uh communicate so
poorly? The people who have done the
communicating are laring as company
executives. They're laring as what they
think a business should speak like. So
right now, you know, AI is really
sublime and wonderful at many things.
Like really truly astounding.
When you ask AI for anything related to
comms or PR, it turns into kind of a
blabbering idiot. like even the most
advanced models that are creating these
wonderful insights and writing poetry.
You ask it to do anything related to
comms or PR and it'll give you the worst
thing you've seen.
>> Introducing the remarkable paper pro
move. It's a paper tablet, a digital
notebook that combines the familiar feel
of paper with the digital powers of a
tablet. Start by taking notes with any
of the dozens of built-in templates.
Then turn your handwriting into type
text and share it by email or Slack. You
can even continue your work on the
desktop or mobile apps. Too much
technology draws us in and shuts out the
world. This paper tablet doesn't. It
will never beep or buzz or try to grab
your attention, so you can devote your
focus to what or who is right in front
of you. It can fit all your notes and
documents and lasts up to 2 weeks on a
single charge, but slips easily inside
your jacket pocket. And most
importantly, Remarkable's mission is
about helping you think better. That
means no apps, social media, or any
other distractions. You can try
Remarkable Paperp Pro Move for 100 days
for free. If it's not what you were
looking for, you get your money back.
Visit remarkable.com to learn more and
get your paper tablet today. This one's
for the tech founders. You know the
moment you finally land on the perfect
name for your startup, but then you
check the.com and it's taken or parked
or priced like a penthouse in New York.
So, you settle. You add random letters.
You force a weird spelling or tack on an
extra word. It feels like a compromise
because it is. But here's the thing. You
don't have to compromise anymore because
now there's a domain built for founders
like you. Tee isn't an afterthought.
It's a signal to your customers,
investors, and team that you're building
technology at the highest level. I've
seen fast growing startups proudly use
tech domains, not as a fallback, but as
a deliberate choice. So if you have a
name in mind, don't wait. search for it
today with tech on a trusted registar
like godaddy, namecheep or cloudflare
[Music]
>> and it's because that's what it's seeing
and that's what it's learning from and I
think that's the same effect with people
like somebody
starts their career and then goes into
the company doing PR and then they look
around at what does PR look like and
they're like okay let me just do some
version of that and it's it's like this
experiment that I read about where they
had mice in a cage and they were trained
train to run a certain route and then
they would put in a new mouse and take
out the old mouse and they had fully
replaced all of the mice like a ship of
thesis with mice and all of the new mice
were doing all of the behaviors of the
old mice for literally no reason at this
point. The old mice were getting cheese
or whatever. They just they just
following one by one. So, I actually
think we're in this like very
hollow,
meaningless corporate zeitgeist of
everybody copying everybody else and
there's just no there there. And
I think the way to break the cycle is
every once in a while somebody just does
something totally different and it works
and then the copying can at least glom
on to copying something better. So, so
the leaders will do something more
interesting and then the copers will try
to do something similar to that and the
leader will get the A+ result and the
copers will get the C plus result. Then
someone else will get an A+ result and
the copers might get a B+ result and I
think that's the way you so um Toby look
Shopify he has done a number of things
that are original courageous for the
first we're were both Toby Vans and then
you see other companies kind of falling
in line. And so it's like the number one
most courageous does it first and then
the number two and three do it and then
eventually 5 years later the number 50
is doing it too. And so you do this
enough times that over the years
hopefully things get better. I don't
know if he realizes it, but he probably
single-handedly changed the number of
people speaking out in Canada on the
election because he started having an
opinion, having a voice, and that that
sort of made it safe for other people to
have an opinion, have a voice, and that
might go counter to the norm.
>> Yeah. But government communications in
particular, I mean I I think of this as
attacks on citizens,
>> attacks on educated citizens because you
have to spend, you know, they
communicate in one page
>> uh what should be maybe two max three
sentences and you have to spend your
time deciphering it. It's almost like a
race to see how much we can say without
saying anything.
>> Yeah. It's incredible. I mean, someone
like you, your billable hours would be
like in the thousands. Yeah.
>> If you spend an extra couple hours and
then that adds up over the course of a
lifetime, that is that much productivity
added together from everyone who's doing
it. And the more um productive someone
is in the economy, the more time they're
probably spending reading this stuff
like from the news and from government
announcements. And so it really adds up.
I would love to see someone do a study
of the financial cost of jargony gov
speak and corpose speak. I think I
wonder if this comes from the idea that
we need more communications that doesn't
make better communications. Like the
answer for a long time, I don't know
what it's like inside companies now, but
for a long time uh in the government and
and in large corporations that I was
working with, the answer was always like
more comms, but nobody was asking like
what's better comms? You know, it's not
like we need to communicate more. It,
you know, we need to be more effective
at our communication. How do you think
about that?
>> This is the um this is sort of Goodwin's
law where once the measure becomes the
goal, it ceases to be a good measure.
And what we've done is we've taken a
group of people and said your job is
communications and your metric is
communicating a lot presumably.
If you picture a scenario where people
have a job and their job is just to
communicate versus a scenario where the
goal is to help people understand
something important. This plays out
completely differently. In the first
scenario, the people whose job is
communicating are just generating
activity
>> to try to show that they should hold on
to their jobs and be able to get jobs in
the future.
>> Whereas in the second scenario, if the
goal is to help people understand
something important so that we can
effect a change in the world together,
that's more the paradigm that I think is
the reality today. It's just not evenly
distributed. But the the top leaders
like the Toby look Brian Armstrong
types. They already get it. And that is
the most effective person to speak is
the person who's leading the enterprise.
If you were building a cult, and I would
say that most successful startups are
like cults in many ways. If you were
building a cult, you would never be
like, "Let's not let have the cult
leader speak. He he might go off the
reservation and he's kind of quirky and
eccentric, a little bit weird. Let's
just have somebody who's like really
polished and professional and normal
speak on his behalf in a way that will
never offend anybody. You would never
build a cult that way. What the best
communicating companies are doing is
having the cult leader having the leader
of the enterprise speak directly about
their what their vision is. Because if
you're trying to do something different
that hasn't been done before, in my mind
that's the only thing kind of worth
doing cuz otherwise just go be an
employee. If you're trying to be some do
something original and different that
has not been done, it doesn't exist,
it's very hard to prove to people that
it's going to work, especially in the
early days. And what I said before about
human conviction and that being
contagious, you need the person who
leads the enterprise to say in the first
person, we are going to do this. It is
going to work. Look me in the eyes.
Follow me. Join me on this because we're
going to do something great. I swear to
you on my life this will be my life's
work. It could be your life's work too.
There's nobody else who can do that in
the first person. Like imagine that
recruiting speech given in the form of
my boss has told me to tell you whatever
it looks like. So I I um going back to
your question of why has it gotten so
sucky? It's because the we have
designated a group of people who had
less skin in the game to be the
communicators and given them a metric of
just saying stuff. What is the skin in
the game from the person doing the
communicating if it's not the founder
sort of like if it's a big cor for
example a big corporation puts out a
press release like what is the skin in
the game for
>> I don't think there is any nobody has
real glory if it goes right nobody has
humiliation and despair if it goes wrong
it just sort of is out there for the
purpose of checking a box and for some
public companies they need to literally
check box according to like SEC rules,
but the press release as a means of
communication I think is obsolete by
like a decade.
>> I want to come back to something you
said where the founder with conviction
is like giving this message. It's very
different than so having an intermediary
between people.
>> How much of that appeals to us from a
psychological level because it's
uncertainty avoidance? this person's
certain like I believe it because
there's no surface area for any
non-belief.
>> What do you mean?
>> Well, if they're saying this is true and
we're going to go to the moon.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's going to happen and I'm this is
my life's work.
>> And I might be thinking, you know,
practically speaking, that's probably
not, you know, going to happen or go to
Mars or it's not going to happen in the
next 5 years. But because this person's
so convincing and they're so passionate
about it, there's like my uncertainty I
would feel diminishes. And like
eventually you hear that message over
and over again. Repetition. Repetition.
And then you start to believe it.
>> Mhm. Yeah. That is how people believe
things. Repetition is one of the ways
that people believe things. And another
is being told something by someone that
they trust. So earlier when I thought
there there was a ghost in your studio,
if
if I had been like, Shane, there's a
ghost here. I'm telling you, I know what
I saw. There's a ghost here. At first,
you would be like, this, you know, she's
a little cuckoo. Maybe we scrap this
episode. But if I just kept following up
with you and telling you and like I
swear to you, I saw this. I'm not lying.
You would be a little bit creeped out.
Have you ever had like a kid say to you,
"I think I saw something or there's a
monster under my bed." And they're just
so sure and you're like, "No, there's
not."
>> But there's the hint of,
>> you know, um it actually is very hard to
resist. And so one of the main ways to
turn something from being perceived as
totally impossible and insane is to have
a person that you trust tell you with
total confidence that it's real and it's
going to happen. Now, the two things in
there are it has to be a person you
trust and they have to say it with total
confidence. If it's not a person you
trust, if it's someone screaming on the
street that your studio has a ghost,
you're not going to take that seriously.
And if I don't say it with confidence,
So, let's say you and I trust each other
and I say, "Shane, I think I saw and you
were like, "No, that was just the thing.
That was just a shadow that I like, oh
yeah, probably." Okay. That doesn't do
anything to you either. It's someone
that you trust speaking with complete
conviction and doing it over and over.
And those three ingredients can be
engineered.
You can engineer trust. There's there's
a formula. Let's talk about it. You can
engineer trust. The conviction should be
real cuz otherwise what are you doing?
Just go get a normal job. So hopefully
the founder already has conviction. But
the but there's ways to convey that and
impress that upon people and to do it
repeatedly with insistence over the
years. So yeah, going to Mars sounds
super wacky, but people who have been
around Elon and I've heard him say it
over and over and people who know him
and trust him believe that we will go to
Mars
>> in our lifetime.
>> I believe him.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But if you if you find people
>> the first time he said it I thought he
was crazy.
>> I'm sure maybe the tenth time, maybe the
hundth time, but by the 10,000th time
you're sort of like maybe he sees
something that we don't see. And if you
look at people who do not like or trust
Elon, they don't believe it as much cuz
they think he's a charlatan. They think
he's a liar. They think he's a bad guy.
And so anything he says, they don't take
seriously. But if you take him seriously
and you trust him and you believe him,
then that carries a lot of weight,
especially when he says it over and over
and over. So, you use the word trust and
I'm wondering is there a nuance with
likability because I had heard before
and I don't know where I got this from
but I remember reading something about
like we're more convinced by people we
like and you use the word trust and I'm
wondering if that was conscious.
>> We're more convinced by people we like
and we like people that we trust. Okay.
>> Um so they are related. It is it is
possible to believe someone you don't
like. Right. It is um like picture
someone that you really dislike and they
say they're going to do something but
you immediately believe that they're
going to do it. So let's say that
there's some foreign adversary who makes
a threat and you believe that they'll
follow through on their threat because
they usually do even if you don't like
them. That is possible. But there
definitely is a link between um if you
like someone you're more likely to
believe them and if you if you believe
someone you're more likely to like them.
Uh and I think that liking is actually
really underrated. So have you heard of
the affect heruristic?
>> Yeah. It's, you know, we have different
decision-making heristics. We have
mental shortcuts because we don't have
all the time in the world. This is like
an evolutionary thing that everybody has
this. We don't train it. It just, it
just comes with us, you know, out of the
box. We don't have all the time in the
world to take in every single piece of
information and make a decision all the
time. Sometimes it's like if you see
smoke, you just got to go, right? And
so, we make um we take mental shortcuts
all the time. And one of the big mental
shortcuts is if we like something and
feel comfortable with something, it's
more likely to be real. Someone we like
is more likely to be competent. Someone
we like is more likely to be smart. All
these things just kind of go together.
And so liking is at the center of that.
>> You mentioned that we can engineer
trust. How do we do that?
>> One is repeated exposure. So in order to
trust somebody, first you have to have a
sense of who they are. Like you would
you wouldn't trust a stranger. you
wouldn't trust a mystery man. So, one is
you have to know who who are they? They
have to show up enough for you get a for
you to get a sense of you actually know
them and they're not a total stranger to
you. It's hard to trust a stranger, but
it's easy to trust even a stranger that
you have a parasocial relationship with
because they're not a stranger. There
are people that you've never met in your
life who would trust you because to them
you're not a stranger. So, first is just
become not a stranger. Second is
establish a set of shared values. I
wouldn't necessarily trust your opinion
on a restaurant. Unless I knew that you
and I like the same type of food. So if
you are like a vegan that hates spicy
food and whatever, I I probably wouldn't
take your restaurant recommendation. Um
even if I like you as a person, right?
>> So you you have to establish some shared
baseline of values. Here are some core
things that I believe about the world
and if you share them then listen to
what I have to say next. If you don't
share them that's okay, right? Not
everybody has to share them. So they
have to get a sense of who you are and
you're not a stranger. And they have to
get a sense of how you think and how you
view things such that when you say other
things, they already have ingrained in
their mind that they think like you
think and therefore if you believe this
thing, they're more likely to believe
that thing, too. This is how to resolve
a debate or an argument. By the way, the
better way to argue, and you see really
uh smooth people like Gav Gavin Newsome
does this on his podcast, maybe a little
bit too slick, but he's clearly very
good at it, is he'll have somebody who
totally disagree with with him on a
bunch of things, and he'll always make
sure to start with agreeing with them on
something, even if it's trivial. I agree
with you that that thing was totally
insane. And now we can have a productive
conversation because we've established
that it's even possible for you and me
to see things the same way as opposed to
your knee-jerk assumption that it
wouldn't be possible. I wonder if that's
why so many almost never disagree with
you. When you are like oh I taste
whatever in this wine they're like
possibly or you know like in their head
they're like no way like that's
completely different taste but they they
never actually come out and say no they
always sort of like bridge a little bit
of a gaping and then they'll like direct
you or steer you towards what they want
you to notice.
>> That's interesting. I'm a tea totler.
So, I'm the person that if I sniff a
wine, I'm like, I think it's wine.
But, but what I have noticed, which is
related to this, is do you ever see
online when people are insulting someone
or dunking on someone, but then that
person shows up and says, "Thanks for
your feedback." The original person who
was insulting them or dunking on them
almost immediately folds like a cheap
suit. Have you seen this?
>> Yeah. almost immediately they fold. Hey
man, thank you. No, totally understand.
I would be doing the same thing. I got
you. Like, what what just happened? And
it's because once you're actually
confronted by a person instead of just
like a concept or some kind of nebulous
idea of a person or or some
representation of a person like once the
person is there talking to you, even if
it's online, we behave in a completely
different way. And so one of the things
I tell founders to do is just to show up
and defend yourself. You know, defend
your people, defend your companies. Sam
Alman is really good at this. He defends
his employees. And it's very hard, even
as much as with any public figure,
people like to dunk and hate and insult.
And when he shows up, a lot of the time,
you see the person immediately fold cuz
they're just like flattered or they
don't want to fight with him directly or
something. It's one of the most powerful
things is just to put a human in their
way.
>> That's really interesting. Do you think
that founders have to rebut everything?
I want to get into sort of negative
media later, but do you think they have
to rebut everything or is it that if
they do it enough, it sort of like
deters attacks?
>> I think there's a big um deterrent
effect with some founders. So like
Palmer Lucky has extremely strong deter.
Have you ever read the three body
problem?
>> No.
>> You'd love it. You'd love this trilogy.
The three body problem. It's it's it's
uh actually three books and there's an
alien civilization and they probably
want to come to Earth and take all of
our resources and we would be destroyed.
And it turn it turns into a game of
deterrence. It turns into game theory of
how do we prevent them from doing that
when they're so much more
technologically sophisticated than us.
And I won't spoil it, but a large part
of the book centers on how do we deter
them? And again, they are
technologically dominant over us.
They've actually sent sensors and spies
to come here and can see everything
that's happening. And so, Earth has
designated certain people to be what
they call wallfacers, as in they are
metaphorically facing a wall and not
interacting with the outside world uh in
a normal way. They're making secret
plans and their job is to be deceptive
so that anyone watching, whether you're
a human or you're a tricolar in alien
civilization, you can't tell what
they're really up to. And among some of
the people in in the second book, they
have the power to do the equivalent of
of pulling a trigger. And the aliens
have to determine who's really going to
do this. So the aliens decide which
people have strong deterrence and weak
deterrence. And there's one guy who has,
I think they call it perfect deterrence,
which is he will 100%
pull the trigger if needed. He doesn't
care about dying. He He doesn't care.
He's not worried about protecting his
family. He's not worried about literally
anything. He's just like a perfect
algorithm where if this then trigger. He
has perfect deterrence. And during the
time that he's around, the aliens do
nothing. They're completely deterred.
When he's gone, that power passes to
this woman who has actually very weak
deterrence. Okay,
>> she just like feels bad. She's got other
stuff going on and the aliens call her
bluff. They realize that she has weak
deterrence and they are not deterred and
then things go very badly from there.
All of this is to say that some people
have strong deterrence or weak
deterrence and you can signal that
through your behavior. Someone like
Palmer whom I love and I really like
this about him has basically perfect
deterrence which is that if you come
after him in some material way he will
come after you basically guaranteed 100%
of the time. His comm's team isn't
holding him back. His co-founders aren't
holding him back. Investors nothing
nothing is holding him back from coming
after you and probably continuing to
come after you for maybe the rest of his
life. like extremely strong deterrence,
which doesn't mean that there are not
like internet goons who sometimes still
take a shot, but I actually haven't seen
it for a very long time. I can't
remember the last time that someone took
a meaningful shot at Palmer, that
someone landed a blow.
Are you struggling to manage your
projects at work? Using lots of
different tools for communication, task
management, and scheduling doesn't have
to be this hard. Base Camp is the
refreshingly straightforward, reliable
project management platform. It's
designed for small and growing
businesses. So there's none of the
complexity you get with software
designed for enterprises. Complexity
kills momentum. Base Camps the path so
your team can actually move. Do away
with scattered emails, endless meetings,
and missed deadlines. With Base Camp,
everything lives in one place. To-do
lists, message boards, chat
conversations, scheduling, and
documents. When information is
scattered, attention is too. Base Camp
brings both back together. Basec camp's
intuitive design ensures that everyone
knows what's happening, who's
responsible, and what's coming next. My
head of operations swears by this
platform, and is the first person to
suggest it to anyone. If you need
another decorated referral, you should
call her. Whether you're a small team or
growing business, Base Camp scales with
you. Stop struggling. Start making
progress. Get somewhere with Basecam.
Sign up for free at basecamp.com.
>> I remember being in the audience at the
Miami All-In
>> Yeah.
>> summit.
>> And him and Jason just went off on each
other.
>> And I thought it was brilliant. Like I
liked the fact that he was like standing
up for himself and, you know, sort of
arguing. He was doing it respectfully,
>> uh, but he was sort of just calling
you know,
>> and he was doing it on his own. And not
everybody, like I wouldn't have done
that. A lot of people either wouldn't or
couldn't get away with it, but this is
authentically him. This is not like his
PR team wrote a script for him and
they're like, "Hey, read this and get
really mad." Like, this is him. I think
he had it on his Apple notes and just
like did himself like, "Hey, I'm going
to do this." And then and then did the
way this goes wrong is if people try to
affect being someone that they're really
not. And then once you see through that,
not only do you not have the original
intended effect, but then you also lose
all your other credibility, too. Who
else is like I I think Sam Alman has a
fairly strong deterrent, but the way
that you respond to attacks establishes
how strong or weak of a deterrent that
you have. And it's painful up front, but
then it gets a lot easier later because
people stop coming after you.
>> Well, let's talk about responding to
attacks first. Palmer, if you're
listening, I'd love to have you on the
podcast. Palmer, Shane's great.
>> Let's talk about how uh to respond
during an attack. What What are sort of
there's a let's say um two scenarios
that come to mind are like a negative
article about your company or like maybe
an accusation against the CEO. What
What's the playbook for responding to
these things?
>> The first thing is does it actually
matter? Cuz like don't waste your one
wild and precious life responding to
every single thing if it doesn't matter.
Not because it'll necessarily hurt you,
but just you have better things to do
with your time. Go for a walk. So, the
first is deciding whether it matters.
And there's a couple things to decide
whether it matters. Number one, is it
reaching people that matter? Cuz if it's
some dark corner of the internet with
some crank and your actual audience is
not there and don't care, that's totally
fine. Or let's say that you are a
Republican politician and your audience
is like right-wing Americans and AOC
attacks you. Great. Congratulations.
That's good for you. You do you don't
have to do anything there. That's
actually like a wonderful complaint. You
might turn it into an ad. Like lean into
it. So So the first is just like
>> who is it and who are they reaching
>> and is that going to do damage? And then
the second is is it something material?
So, if it's I write a blog post and I'm
like I went to Shane Parish's studio and
his snacks weren't that good. But if
it's like I went to his studio and he
lied to me about what we're going to
cover. Um, he tricked me into coming on
with promises of an interview and and it
went in a totally different direction.
And after he lied, he used that to, you
know, he put my face on an ad without
getting my permission. He used it to
like shill his new supplements company
or something. that would be pretty
material to you in trying to get future
guests and in in the image that you have
with people that you respect and so that
would be worth addressing.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so who are the people involved? Do
they matter to you?
>> And then what is the actual accusation?
Does that matter to you? If both are a
yes, then you got to respond immediately
and aggressively, right away. You can't
kind of, oh, I don't know. It feels so
bad. Maybe it'll go away. the the
instinct is let me just maybe it'll just
go away by itself. It doesn't go away by
itself. So this is like so I broke my
nose um multiple times in college. You
could sort of see it's like curved. And
the what I learned about broken noses is
if you break your nose, you got to break
it back right away so that it can heal.
If you don't do that, you either have a
crooked nose forever and learn to live
with it, or if you want to get it fixed
five years later, you got to break it
back five years later. So, you can
either break it back now while it's
already broken and then let it heal
hopefully once and for all. Or you can
kind of wait for it to go away and then
decide that you're not happy with it and
it bugs you and then you have to fix it
and then 5 years later you're stuck
breaking your nose from scratch. This is
the way that I think about a
reputational blow is if if there has
been material reputational damage, you
can either handle it in that moment and
break the nose back and and just fix it
then and there while things are already
bad or kind of let it fester and then
eventually you'll realize like you don't
want to live with this and you have to
address it and now you're stuck with do
I have a crooked nose forever or do I
have to break it from scratch? One of
the things that I read that's related to
uh accusations and sort of corporate
crisis, you said if you're fighting a
story with a statistic, you're losing.
>> Yes.
>> Double click on that for me.
>> You know the probably apocryphal Lenin
quote about one death is a tragedy, a
thousand deaths is a statistic. This is
so true. And I think a good example of
this is probably during the NAFTA
debates where it was about should we
have free trade or not free trade. And
the people who are pro- NAFTA, protrade
would say it'll lift our GDP by this
much. It'll it'll help facilitate this
much um flow of trade and do these it
was like very nebulous because what is
2% versus 1% versus 8% like the average
person doesn't it doesn't mean anything
to them. Whereas, if you're anti-rade
and you could say like, "This is Shane.
He's got 12 children. He just lost his
job." People will do anything to help
Shane with 12 children who just lost his
job versus the 2% of potential growth
just doesn't mean anything. It's why
when um charities try to get you to give
money, they're like this specific child.
So, on the on the poster on the
recruiting thing, it's never like
>> 50,000 children or at least if they're
doing a good job, it's not. If they're
doing a good job, it's like this is one
little girl, you know, staring into the
camera. She has this sickness. She needs
$10, right? Can you just do that? Or
even if it's save the pandas,
>> it's like this panda,
>> it's very specific.
>> This panda has a name. And so we always
wanted we we want to influence a story
and help a person. For us, the reward of
getting
cataract surgery for one person is much
more powerful than changing a percentage
from 2.1 to 2.105.
>> How does that influence politics and
like the way that people think on mass?
Because politics is so much about this
story. The great presidential uh
campaigns
are very good at telling specific
stories about here's the way something
should have been. Here's where it all
went wrong and here's what needs to do
to bring about a happy ending and we're
almost there and help me take us to the
happy ending. Like that's every story,
right? The Shire is green and beautiful
and then Sauron starts to wage war and
in order to make things right again, the
ring needs to go into the volcano. Every
great story is some version of here's
how things should be and here's
something wrong and here's what it takes
to fix it. And the great politicians
make themselves the thing that it takes
to fix it and you can help them get
there. And along the way they're telling
stories about this one single mother
sitting at the breakfast table over this
bill for this specific type of cancer
that her husband whose name is Joe. Like
that is the message that gets people to
care as opposed to help me take help me
turn 2% into 2.1%.
>> In the interest of better political
discourse around the world, how do you
argue with that if you're the opposition
when your opponent is telling a story
but factually it has no basis in reality
and you're coming out arguing with facts
which isn't going to win. How do you how
do you counter that?
>> You have to fight story with story.
There's no like the most powerful
statistic
is probably not as powerful as the
median story. Like the most powerful
statistic is not as powerful probably as
the average story. If someone is
fighting you with stories, you have to
fight with stories. Out of the
statistics will be better stories. Under
the statistics are more powerful
stories. So the facts are on your side.
Better stories can be found. And if your
opponent is actually lying in their
skull duggery, maybe there's a story
about that. Like in the in the tech
world, we're seeing a very interesting
story play out between Ripling and Deal,
which are these two payroll processors,
and Deal planting a spy and the spy like
running into the bathroom and then try
to flush a phone. I mean, it's very
vivid. And so all this back and forth
about you spied on us and we spied on
you and you told pe people this and our
revenue is this but you claim you're
like all of that fades into the noise
and people are just picturing like the
spy hiding into the bath in the bathroom
trying to flash a phone. So if someone
is actually lying and attacking you
maybe there's a story to be told about
that.
>> How much of our minds are driven by
headline when it comes to this stuff?
>> Whoever frames it seems to have an
advantage.
>> Whoever comes out first has an
advantage. Um this is Winston Churchill
says the a lie makes its way around
around the world before the truth can
get its pants on. And when you
>> quote
half the quotes attributed to Churchill
are apocryphal but they're all of them
are excellent whether they he actually
said it or not. He spiritually said it
online you see this constantly where
somebody will post something and then
sometimes there's a great rebuttal and
the rebuttal will get like onetenth as
much engagement as the original thing.
And so there's a lot of value in simply
saying the thing first. And if you think
someone is going to attack you for
something, then you can get ahead of it
and do the pre- rebuttal. The
pre-buttle. Uh I think the pre-buttle
should be a thing. If you know what
people are going to attack you for, do
the pre-buttle. So have you seen the
Eminem rap battle in 8 Mile?
>> Yes. The final one. I know everything
you're about to say against me.
>> Yes.
>> And everybody should do this. I actually
think um there should be just a clip. I
want to find a clip of the final rap
battle and just make it mandatory
viewing for anyone who's in the public
eye and has haters and people attacking
them because what he says hopefully
everyone's already seen this u cinematic
masterpiece but what he does is in this
rap battle Eminem's character he goes
first and everything that the guy would
have used against him he uses against
himself and addresses all of it and he
either owns it or diffuses it and then
by the end the other guy actually has
nothing left to
So just being first means that you have
the opportunity to do that. If that if
the order had been reversed, the whole
thing wouldn't have worked.
>> That was a I love that final uh battle.
And apparently for people who geek out
on this stuff, there's a lot of unedited
clips from when they were recording
where they actually did freestyles.
>> Uh and everybody wanted to challenge
Eminem.
>> Oh, I'm sure.
>> You know, I'm never going to be on stage
with you, but like in this studio right
now. And so people were going off script
all the time.
>> Oh, that's cool. Yeah. Talk to a UFC
fighter who is actually like UFC Hall of
Fame. And he says that whenever he goes
to a bar, he doesn't want people to know
that he's a professional fighter cuz all
the guys try to fight him.
>> Of course. Yeah. Legend has it Ken
Shamrock used to use bars as training.
>> So he used to go to the bars and like
use it as training ground
>> on that. A lot of power in just
sparring. Like when you listen to
whether they're CEOs or founders,
political figures, the people who spend
a lot of time sparring are sharper than
the people who haven't had to spar. They
are just sharper and better. So like
Charlie Kirk, um he's a right-wing
activist. He goes around to campuses. He
literally just parks himself at a campus
and then all these college students who
hate him line up and fight with him
verbally. they argue with him and he
just like chops them down systematically
or he engages with them like it's not
disrespectful. He engages with their
ideas and then he has these debates and
this he just does this basically as a
full-time job and he is now incredibly
sharp. Ben Shapiro is the same. These
are people who have had to defend every
single thing. If you're Ben Shapiro, you
walk outside and say the sky is blue,
people would say, "Well, of course you
would think that you Zionist." He would
have to defend it. like everything
they've had to defend repeatedly and as
a result they are very sharp. You can
say that you disagree and you think
their opinions are bad and wrong. It's
very hard to say that they're not
sharper and they're not smart and
they're not great on the stump because
they objectively are. Even the people
who hate them and hate their positions
can't say that they're dumb. Um and
that's the same for CEOs like Palmer or
like Toby where they don't surround
themselves with yesmen. They put
themselves into situations that might be
mixed, hostile, skeptical. They welcome
the skepticism. They engage and as a
result, they are incredibly sharp and
they don't freeze when they're
confronted with skepticism. Whereas,
when you see sometimes CEOs that have
been more coddled, where they've been
like the god king of their company and
everything they say is right and true
and brilliant, they're the most handsome
and smart person everywhere they go. If
someone disagrees with them online or
they're getting dunked on, they actually
don't really know what to do and so they
outsource it to the comms team and it
sort of unravels from there.
>> That's really interesting. How would you
go about getting better at sparring?
Like if you wanted to start learning how
to defend your opinions better or to
realize that you're wrong. So it's not
even defending your opinions, it's like
putting them out there and then sort of
getting feedback from the world and
adapting. How do you think about that? I
think it's about who you surround
yourself with and getting people who
will tell you
in the safety of your inner sanctum when
you're wrong so that you can start
sparring in a in a more sterile
environment. Like you can start, you
don't have to go and start sparring with
the blue water internet. You can start
with just people that you trust and it's
not going to do any damage. But if you
don't even allow people close to you to
disagree and spar with you, and if you
penalize people who speak up against
you, then what you're doing is you're
making yourself incredibly
intellectually brittle. So that when you
go out into the world and get faced with
who knows what, you're completely
unprepared. And that unpreparedness e
shows either in live interviews.
Sometimes you see people in live
interviews just like lock up and they
freeze. No one on their team has told
them that they sound bullshitty. And so
suddenly the reporter is telling them
they don't know what to do or they just
freeze and hide and go away and they
don't engage and now it's just like
you're lying on the ground while people
punch you. So I think it's just who you
surround yourself with. It's kind of
like you want your friends and family to
tell you if you have broccoli in your
teeth so that you don't have to go out
into the street. But if you yell at them
for doing that and they stop telling you
now you just walk around all day with
broccoli and then someone else will
point it out. One person I know and I I
won't mention their name, but they block
everybody who sort of disagrees with
them on Twitter or X or whatever you
call it now. And I worry about this in
my head because like how does this play
out, right? Like over the long term, you
know, it's like you stop getting
information that's different than your
worldview. And if you become a bit more
fragile, I think in that case, do you
agree with that or like what when do you
block, when do you not? What do you
think? I'm I'm a big muter
>> where it's like, okay, if I've said
something and you think it sucks, then
feel free to dunk on it. I've decided to
say it. I'm not going to say it only to
people who agree with me. I think if
someone is like abusive or threatening,
maybe that's a block situation, but I'm
a big muter where it's like
>> I just don't want to pollute my feed
with your nonsense. Um, and it's
different from disagreeing. It's more
like if you are just negative and rude
and toxic in other ways. So the way that
I do it is if someone just disagrees, I
actually want to see that, right?
>> I don't want to insulate. Yeah. I don't
want to insulate myself from that. I
want to see it. Maybe I want to engage
with it. Maybe I want to have some of
that back and forth. Um, especially when
I was working in video games, you know,
gamers are so passionate and have no
tolerance for nonsense. And I really
respect them for that. Even the ones who
hated me or hated my company. And I
really valued the opportunity to go back
and forth. And people and gamers are
really funny, too. Like they their love
language is memes. They would make memes
of me. Sometimes nice, sometimes really
like I cringe to to think of them. And
and yet that's part of the discourse.
You I would make memes back and and we
would interact. But if it's like uh just
rude and nasty, then I don't need to
subject myself to that. I'm gonna leave
the proverbial room. So that's a mute.
>> What if there's asymmetry in the
communication? And think of this as like
a newspaper uh maybe coming after a
small company or left-leaning media
going after right uh leaning sort of
politicians or something. There's like
an asymmetry to this. How do you deal
with that if you're on the other side of
that asymmetry? What's the asymmetry?
>> Well, the asymmetry is like there's a
whole bunch of money, power, reputation
behind um you know, if the New York
Times sort of write a story on a small
business, it could kill that business.
And it might or might not be true, but
that business might only have five
people working for it.
>> Yeah.
>> How do they How do you think about that?
>> I think God smiles on underdogs. And I
think that if you are blessed to be in
an underdog position, you should try to
take advantage of it. It's not going to
feel like a blessing in the moment. and
it'll feel really horrible. But there is
something to being so clearly punched
down on
>> that gives you more power and liberty in
that moment where people will naturally
sympathize with the underdog. People are
naturally very skeptical of big
mainstream corporate media right now.
People are very skeptical of bullies.
And so if you're in the receiving
position of that, I think you can
actually use that because if you if you
realize that you're not trying to win
over every single person in the world,
but that there's a a certain set of
people you need to win over who are
aligned with you, then actually all you
need to do is help them understand that
you and they are on the same page and an
attack on you is an attack on them and
use that to rally them to you. So I
think that a hit piece is not the worst
thing that can happen. There's a there's
a kind of horseshoe where a great piece
fine, a hit piece, fine, kind of fine,
you can use it. Doesn't feel good, but
you can use it. What you don't want is
the uncanny valley where it's not a hit
piece, but it has information about you
that while it doesn't sound aggressive
or hostile, makes you look horrible.
Like, that's the worst way of looking
bad is not even being attacked and
looking bad. It's not the mainstream
media is coming after me and they have
an agenda and they hate what I stand
for. It's just, oh, they reported this
fact and it makes me look horrible.
That's like the uncanny valley where you
you don't want that or it's like mixed.
But a straightup hit piece I think is
okay.
>> And then when you talk about sort of
like rallying your the people like you
and making is that spreading your
surface area out so it's like you're not
just attacking me, you're attacking
everybody who's like me.
>> Yeah. So I I sometimes refer to an
equation in physics which is P= F A. The
pressure equals the force divided by the
surface area. And it it's very
intuitive, right? Like the same amount
of force if you spread it over a wide
surface area doesn't exert a lot of
pressure. So think of like a a big sheet
of paper that's pushing down versus if
the surface area contracts then the same
amount of force creates a lot of
pressure. So like a needle can puncture
through. So like a big sheet of paper
really hard to puncture through. Needle
can puncture through. Or it's the same
when you're trying to rip fabric. If
you're just tearing fabric, it's really
hard. But if there's a tiny nick
already, the whole thing just comes
open. And so the way to think about this
is if you're trying to relieve pressure,
you don't get to change how much force
is coming at you. But you can change the
surface area. You can spread it out over
more surface area. You're not just
attacking me. You're attacking all of
us. You're not just attacking, let's
say, Substack or a Substacker for a
specific post. You're attacking all
independent writers who are trying to
assert their freedom of expression.
That's a way to diffuse the pressure on
you and rally people to you uh in a very
powerful way. And then if you're ever on
offense, not that you want to be the
antagonist and go after someone and
attack someone, but sometime sometimes
you need to go on offense just to defend
yourself. If you're going on offense,
then you actually want to maximize the
pressure and you decrease the surface
area. So, for example, if if the media
is attacking you in a very unfair way,
the worst thing you can do is just
complain about the media. If the surface
area of what you're complaining about is
too big, then you sound like a tinfoil
hat. Like, the the media is after me and
the government's after me and also the
CIA is after me and also the weather is
not good. It it's it's too much.
Whereas, if you narrow it to say this
specific reporter has had a vendetta
against my company because their cousin
runs a competitor or whatever, that is
actually a lot more effective and more
credible and you're maximizing the
pressure on that person.
>> I like that a lot. Double click more on
the offense if you're playing offense
here.
>> What does that look like?
>> How do you tactically do it or
>> Well, so this is offense as a defensive
response. So, you know, you're attacking
a reporter. What's offense without a
response look like? Like what does
instigation look like?
>> Yeah. So,
>> if you're trying to pick a fight to get
attention, if you're uh trying to
preempt something if
>> sometimes a good way to succeed as an
underdog is to pick a fight. Now, I
don't suggest picking a fight just to be
mean and you never want to be punching
down or you be the bully. That's not
good. But if you are starting from
basically nothing and you need to gather
steam and and gather people to join a
movement, make yourself relevant, then
it's good to have something to fight
for. You need to have a cause. And often
with a cause, you need to have a foil.
So yes, there's something you want to
see in the world, but there's something
that you want to change. There's
something that you are against. And so I
think that it's very worth choosing a
foil. And maybe the foil is the strangle
hold of the existing financial system.
Maybe the foil is this one specific
regulation. So boom, supersonic. Uh
Blake Schaw runs it. It's the first
civilian privately uh created supersonic
plane.
They've been lobbying and fighting and
struggling against this one specific bad
piece of legislation that's like
outdated from 50 years ago that's
basically a speed limit in the sky
because at the time planes made this big
boom when when they went fast and people
didn't like the big boom because it's
disruptive. So they said you're not
allowed to go fast. The real thing
should have been you're not allowed to
be noisy but they just made it you're
not allowed to go fast. Now that we're
able to go fast without being noisy,
you're still not allowed to go fast. So
he was able to actually help influence
getting this legislation overturned and
that was a big win. But he wasn't
attacking anybody, wasn't being mean to
anybody. He just said like pinpointing
this is the thing that's holding back
speed in America, not just for me, but
for industry and for a lot of things
broadly um beyond just my company. And
>> kind of like this is indicative of a
broader problem. It's affecting me in
this way, but it's affecting everybody
else. But there's one specific thing to
picture. If he had said the problem is
red tape, that's nothing. You know, if
the problem is bad regulations,
the problem is being slow and not moving
fast enough as a country in general,
like there's just nothing there.
>> You have to be specific so people can
sort of like see it or feel it. Is that
the
>> Yeah, there has to be something to
attach these emotions onto. And if it's
just sort of this like
diaphous idea in the ether, it's very
hard for people to even congregate
around something.
>> Going back to physics for a second, how
important is velocity when it comes to
communication?
>> Yeah. So, I talk about velocity a lot
because velocity is a vector. It has a
magnitude and a direction. People talk a
lot about magnitude. They don't talk
about direction. So they t this is what
you were saying earlier with like people
just say a lot of words but it doesn't
mean anything and so sometimes it feels
like the metric is just quantity of
yapping and we're going to go on all
these podcasts and we're going to
deliver blog posts like I've seen inside
a lot of comm's teams or agencies where
their metrics and their KPIs for the
quarter are
two opeds,
three podcasts,
four town halls and and it's all about
quant quantity
without talking about where are we
trying to move the needle to. So it's
kind of like you know the you know the
clawed logo that's
>> you know like the starburst in in all
these different directions.
You don't want your comms to look like
that where you're just like doing things
in a bunch of different directions. You
actually want your comms to look kind of
like a line that builds towards a
destination. And if you don't have the
direction in mind, then it's just a
bunch of frantic activity and wasted
motion, some of which cancels each other
out. So again, it goes back to don't
worry so much about where are you going
to say it. Worry about what are you
going to say in none of these plans and
strategies that lay out three town halls
and four opeds and whatever. I almost
never see here's the idea that we want
to spread. here is the idea that we're
going to spread and everything needs to
go in this direction and what makes this
idea interesting and worthwhile. It's
just get the CE out there, get this CEO
out there, get him interviews, get him
onto the Shane Parish podcast. What's he
going to say? Nobody knows. Just put him
in the chair.
>> I think that's interesting because I
often wonder why this stuff happens,
right? Like how do we end up in this
sit? Like why isn't the default behavior
the the correct behavior? And I I often
come back to the conclusion uh at some
point somebody's coming to you and it's
like what did you do last week and then
oh I organized a town hall I like
reached out to 72 different podcasts
>> and you know it's not about like well
how do they matter? Well I just you know
it's sort of like this spray and prey
approach.
>> Yeah. Uh but you always have a good
story so you can never get in trouble,
right? Like you're always doing and then
they can tell you to do something
different but at that point you're
getting specific.
>> Yeah.
>> You're doing stuff. The three things for
actually making a difference with your
story are one, what is the message?
Don't just start saying stuff like what
is the core truth that you're going to
convince people of? And that's the
overlap in the ven diagram that we
talked about. It's true. it's relevant
to you, but it's also something that
those people actually care about. You
got to get that out there. So,
identifying the message. People kind of
just skip this part, like just get the
CEO on podcast and he'll open his mouth
and stuff will come out.
>> Two, what are the right mediums? So,
there are people who maybe should be on
this podcast, maybe should be on Shawn
Ryan, maybe they should be on Theo Van,
maybe they should be on the New York
Times. Like, it depends on who they're
talking to and what they're trying to
get accomplished. But people don't often
think that way. They think about just
what are the hot podcasts right now.
They'll look at the Apple leaderboard
and then okay the top ones on the Apple
leaderboard are this. Let's try to go
there. Who has the biggest distribution?
Who cares about what's the biggest
distribution? It's a vector. It's not
about just magnitude. Magnitude means
nothing without direction. In what
direction is that distribution? Who are
they distributing to? So in AI for
example, I work with a lot of AI
founders and companies and I've heard
companies and founders try to
they're like doing comm's activities and
then I ask them what's the goal? Well,
the goal is actually recruiting
researchers. Okay. Well, if you're
trying to recruit researchers, why are
you spending all this time on NPR? Do
you think the researchers are listening
to NPR? Do you think the researchers are
like reading this whatever? I don't I
don't want to dunk on anyone too bad,
but like NPR actually is a good example.
>> Yeah,
>> they're probably reading like the Simon
Williamson newsletter. They're probably
reading this V substack. They're reading
the less wrong, you know, comments. Like
this this is um a totally different
ecosystem that you actually haven't
penetrated whatsoever. And so just
putting it in the right medium and then
lastly having the right messenger. So, a
lot of the time we speak through
press releases or spokespeople or hired
gun PR agencies when actually the
founder just needs to go on video and
talk as a threedimensional human being
and nobody's going to like if you're the
Wizard of Oz behind the curtain. It's
very hard to trust you because people
don't even know who you are. But if you
just come out with your face and say it,
that's more effective than an army of
hired guns trying to say it for you.
>> Well, let's use a recent example and
compare and contrast the Crowd Strike
response
>> to the Coinbase response
>> to two big crisises that were handled
very differently.
>> I think that fits this, doesn't it?
>> I think so.
>> Yeah. Can you walk us through that?
Brian is very special in the sense that
he has such a deep sense of right and
wrong in what he believes in that he he
has such high conviction that the thing
he believes is right and true and good.
Um I happen to agree with him but not
everybody does and when people don't it
doesn't bother him as much as it would
bother an average person because his
conviction is so deep that the opinion
of a random person actually doesn't
matter that much. He's also been forged
by fire the same way that Palmer and
some others have where they've gone
through this experience and felt the
pain and now they know that the normal
slings and arrows of the quotidian
haters don't amount to that much. And so
I I give you this preamble because the
spinal fortitude of the person matters a
lot. I don't know the crowd strike CEO
and I don't want to criticize because
that was an insane
time and it feels very overwhelming but
it was an insane time for for Coinbase
and the thing that held true was Brian
is willing to put his face to his words
and his words to his principles and he
was willing to say it from himself. He
could have gone through spokespeople and
then not had to take any of the comments
and just kind of hid behind he could
have used his people as a human shield
and he didn't. So that makes that made a
big difference. you you can see in the
reactions of just what that did with
people's confidence in him and of the
company and obviously it's not a great
situation but he turned it into
something that estab that gave the
company a really costly way to prove
what its values were.
>> I was really surprised by the
crowdstrike response in just terms of
like it looked like a PR agency sort of
handled that.
>> I think lawyers wrote it.
>> Yeah,
>> I think probably a committee. I think
the collective noun is maybe a bar a bar
of attorneys wrote it for him
and it and it doesn't sound human
because it's not human. A committee is
not a human being.
>> So So walk me through if you were in
that room hypothetically and all the
lawyers are saying you you can't go out
there and just talk yourself, you can't
open your surface area, you can't, you
know, give more, you can't admit guilt,
you can't uh do any of these things. How
would you what would be your advice in
that situation?
>> Here's a here is a big difference
between the CEO and anybody else. Most
other people, their job is to optimize
for one specific thing. So lawyers,
they're doing their job, their job is to
minimize legal risk and to minimize the
surface area of legal liability
approaching zero. the CEO's job, and
this is like a Hegelian political
philosophy point of view of weighing and
considering different factions and
different interests. The CEO's job
uniquely is to consider different
interests and weigh them against each
other to reach the net optimal outcome
for the company.
When this goes wrong, what it looks like
is everybody gets scared of the lawyers
and the CEO follows exactly what the
lawyers say and dismisses every other
interest. They are not doing their job
as the CEO, which is to weigh the
interest against each other and find the
net best outcome. They're folding to the
lawyers and they're making the lawyers
supreme over everybody else. And I think
that is probably what happened. That
it's what happens a lot. The problem in
the real world when this happens is by
entirely considering legal risk, you're
not considering trust, reputational
risk, and all these other things. Trust,
reputational risk, these are things that
matter inherently. Just I don't even
have to explain why they matter. Like,
of course, they matter, but they also
come at a cost if they're lost. So if
you were to translate everything into
dollar terms, legal liability might cost
you $100 million.
Yeah, it's not cheap. You know, you
might have to go to court. You could
drag on. But the loss in trust, the loss
in future prospects, customers,
employees who defect, that hire, that
recruit that doesn't accept the job
offer, it could add up to billions.
>> But those costs aren't visible.
>> They're not visible and they're not
immediate.
>> Yeah. And you don't have a person who's
advocating for that with all they've
got. Like the lawyers are advocating for
the legal risk. So I've seen a situation
where a company gets accused of
something. It's like so painful, but
this happens and probably happens a lot,
but this company gets accused of
something and it's false. It's really
bad, but it's false. So the lawyers say,
"Well, we're definitely going to beat
this in court. So, all you have to do is
keep quiet and don't say anything that
could make the situation worse and we'll
beat it in court. What ended up
happening was that keeping quiet and not
saying anything let that narrative take
hold and fester and it ended up costing
more than 10x
more in reputational damage and lost
opportunities and consumer trust and
people boycotting and employees leaving
the company and on and on and on. If the
CEO does their job, that won't happen.
But in the moment, the lawyers have
everybody quaking in fear.
>> Yeah.
>> And they are the subject matter experts
because there's potential litigation and
I'm the lawyer. So, I don't actually
even fault the lawyers. They are doing
their job. What happened is the CEO was
not doing their job, which was to weigh
the balance of interests.
>> And there's a bit of like asymmetry to
loss aversion here too, right? like a
hundred million versus like this vague
thing that's not really immediate nor
visible or Yeah. but I probably know
inside that is like
>> outweighs the hundred million but I
can't sort of like pinpoint it. It's
hard to argue.
>> Yeah. Also, lawyers will say, you know,
um sometimes when a company screws up, a
lot of times lawyers will say, "Don't
apologize." Because if you're
apologizing, you're admitting fault, and
that makes it harder for us in the
courtroom. In practice,
I'm sorry, I I know I'm not a lawyer. In
practice, I've never seen someone lose a
case because the CEO expressed human
remorse and empathy and that was the
thing that made them lose in the
courtroom. I'm I just haven't seen it.
>> Well, there is also a temptation to
apologize for things you haven't done
cuz you think that's the easy way out.
>> Walk me through that.
>> I think that's true. If everybody just
apologized when they did something wrong
and resisted apologizing when they did
nothing wrong, so many problems would be
solved. So many problems would be
solved. It's when people mess up and
refuse to take accountability and then
get accused of something where they
didn't do anything wrong and apologize
for that just to make it go away that
everything gets muddled. And by the way,
you lose all deter effect and you become
a really soft target because whether you
apologize becomes arbitrary.
If your apology and your um subsequent
contrition and a attempt to make amends
is not correlated with whether you did
anything wrong, then of course everybody
should come after you all the time
because it's a lottery ticket, right?
Just come after you and then maybe
they'll get a payout, maybe they'll get
something out of you. Everybody should
try.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. That's the that's the incentives
that you're setting up. Whereas if you
are the type of person to take
accountability if you did something
wrong and never accept responsibility if
you didn't do something wrong and you
stay true to your principles
there will be some pain in the beginning
but you do that a few times and it sets
up a very strong deterrent. You you
achieve strong deterrence like that
wallfacer in the dark forest in the
novel. I'm sorry. Um, so, so it's super
important to do that and CEOs would
solve a lot of their PR issues by simply
apologizing only when they need to and
not sherking accountability if they did
something wrong.
>> I want to come back to politics just for
one second. I don't want to get into
left or right. I I want to ask, do you
think that Donald Trump is an effective
communicator?
>> What makes him effective at
communicating? One is he speaks at like
a third grade vocabulary level. Like he
doesn't use words that nobody can
understand.
Maybe Kofi was the one time. Kofi aside,
he uses words where everybody knows what
the words mean. Strong, great, bad,
good. Everybody knows what these mean. I
could read my seven-year-old a Trump
speech and they could kind of grasp
what's going on. or I could read to my
immigrant parents and they would know
what's going on or me, right? So, so one
is just he uses normal common words that
have a very clear meaning and it's so
basic but so many people just don't do
it. The other is he has very strong
deterrence.
He behaves very predictably in someone,
you know, people will say he's erratic.
He does great, but he's kind of
predictably erratic. Like his behavior
patterns are actually quite predictable.
And so if someone is a super Trumper
Trump fan, they know what they're a fan
of. It's not like it's unclear. You
know, he's this manufactured thing that
sways in the wind and he's like the John
Ky kite surfing video. He is this way
one day, that way, another day. We don't
know. Like, it's very clear. And
everybody who hates him already hates
him. Some cost. It's baked in, but it
doesn't continue to hurt him. Like,
people who hate him aren't going to be
more damaging to him tomorrow than they
were yesterday. And the people who love
him like already are on board with this.
You know, there's some stuff on the
margin with swing voters, but it's very
clear whether to be for or against him.
He doesn't have to worry about his base
shifting all the time because he's
shifting all the time. The third is that
he is really funny. He is he is the
funniest president. I'm sorry. Trump is
the funniest president. Um Reagan closed
second. He is
And then Lyndon Johnson.
He is legitimately funny. And being
funny is an incredible communications
hack. It gets people's attention. It
makes them keep tuning in and keep
listening. You know, keeping attention
is harder than getting attention. And
he's able to do both. And also being
funny makes you weirdly likable. There
are people who hate everything about him
forever. Yes. There are also people who
really don't like his positions and what
he stands for and finds a lot of the
things he does and says distasteful and
they can't help but have some weird
feeling of liking because he makes them
laugh.
>> Yeah. like he he really diffuses
uh situations by being funny. There's
times when he has said something that
might be really shocking or offensive or
whatever, but he's done in a hilarious
way and a lot of people sort of laugh
along with him. So that I think is very
underrated.
>> Do you think uh again not into politics,
but do you think Carolyn Love it, who's
the White House press secretary, I
think, do you think she's effective at
communicating?
>> I think she is. Um with her, a lot of it
is body language. again, you know,
separate this from we're separating this
from the substance of do you agree with
the policy and do like it's just like on
the pure like the form factor and the
aesthetics
>> nails it. She does a wonderful job.
She's really young. You know, she comes
off as older than she is. And then part
of that is um you actually kind of see
her grow into the role in the months
that she's been behind the podium, which
is kind of cool to see. But so much of
communication is your body language and
your bearing. You and I have talked
about this. I'm like super nervous and
sort of dying inside right now, but I'm
trying to just like stay chill for you.
Um, for her, just showing confidence and
ease and comfort and not showing anxiety
or stress or anger or resentment is a
big part of her persona. She comes off
as a happy warrior. People love a happy
warrior. She comes off as being
confident in what she's saying, even
though sometimes if you actually just
parse the words in writing, sometimes
you'd be like, I have some follow-up
questions. Yeah. But the way that she
delivers it is so comfortable and it's
the bearing of somebody who has the
facts on their side.
>> Yeah. It's interesting. Uh just coming
back to the politics, aside part, so
many people just shut their brain off.
uh when you know when I post like a
quote in the newsletter from somebody
they might not like nobody's more
controversial than Elon. I'll post like
a little quote from Elon in there
>> and then people are like I can't believe
you quoted Elon. I had so much respect
for you but now and I'm like
>> are you like the substance of what he
was saying and what I'm trying to convey
or we just have this reaction to people
where we shut down.
>> Yes. And it also goes the other way
where if you like somebody, you
automatically think something is good
and right. There's this thing called the
halo effect. And um I I treat it more
more broadly. I'll tell you how I think
of the halo effect. There's a more like
rigorous disciplined definition. But the
way that I think of the halo effect is
if you're good at if you're considered
good in some arena, people will think of
you as good in some other arena. Like,
>> yeah,
>> I was asking myself the other day, why
do I care what Dave Portoi thinks about
pizza?
>> Like,
>> how did this happen?
>> Why? Like, why am I giving any credence
to this man's taste in pizza? I've never
had dinner with him and been like, "Oh,
we we have the same taste in pizza. Why
do I get And it's like because he's done
a really admirable job
>> in the media with his company. I find it
interesting and refreshing how he
approaches media and his own company
dealing with it. He's taken I think a
very brave and principled stand on
issues on Israel which also is
disconnected from bar stool but it it
just has created this ladder of things
that I tend to agree with him on. And
now he says this pizza is good and I'm
like okay it's probably good. It's what
we were talking about earlier. is like
if you agree on certain things people
will sort of assume just using cognitive
huristics and shortcuts that you'll
agree on another thing too and so there
are people who say I don't believe I
don't agree with Elon on how he
campaigned for this or this or political
or cultural position he has and
therefore I don't think we'll go to Mars
and therefore I'm mad at Shane for
including a quote in his newsletter and
this stuff just spreads because the data
points that we have are relatively few
and we use those to actually draw
outsized conclusions relative to what
the data points merit. Another another
aspect of the halo effect as I think of
it is who are you surrounding yourself
with? This is super relevant for let's
say AI companies and founders. If you're
building a technology that is so
mindblowing and advanced and esoteric
and confidential,
you can't tell people,
well, just go verify that it works. They
can't verify that it works. It's It's
not like you're selling a shoe and they
try it on and yes, it's comfortable.
They'll buy it. Like they actually can't
verify. They can't verify what you're
doing with their data. They'll never be
able to investigate for themselves
whether you're respecting their privacy.
>> They just have to use as proxies other
things whether they trust or not. So
they'll look at you, the human, as the
mascot of the company and use you as a
proxy. This seems like a super
libertarian guy who believes in
individual freedoms and therefore he's
probably more likely to respect my
privacy.
>> This is like Chris Best who runs
Substack is just very skeptical of
overly concentrated power and the way
that that can be abused has talked a lot
about how he as a tech executive
shouldn't have excessive power over
people's speech. And you can conclude
from that that Substack will probably be
very minimalistic and disciplined in how
they use my data. They're probably not
going to be selling my data to stuff and
this is just because of his ethos on
these other things and I probably trust
his taste in pizza too. So, so that's
another area where you could think of it
as a halo effect. And then a last one is
by the company you keep. Have you ever
heard of the cheerleader effect?
>> No. Cheerleader effect is when a group
of um we'll all get cancelled after this
probably, but if uh you um if there's a
woman of a certain attractiveness level
and she stands in a group of attractive
women, you'll think of all of them as
really attractive.
>> You know what I'm talking about? Like
it's like
>> Beyonce looks great and then Beyonce
with her beautiful backup dancers looks
incredible and they all look incredible.
Yeah,
>> this is true of founders and companies.
Like you see one founder on stage, they
might be super impressive and then if
you were to see like why combinator had
this event recently where it was just
star parade and if you were to see Gary
Tan and Sam Alman and Elon Musk and
Satcha Nadella on the same stage, it
would be kind of more than the sum of
its parts in terms of spectacle and awe.
This is what companies can do like with
the company that they keep. So when deal
for example and it goes both ways good
and bad. So when deal was being accused
of having this ridiculous spy episode,
then the uh a co-founder of Brex sat
down with the deal guy and then Brex
looked bad and he ended up deleting it
and so it you know there's like anti-
Halo effect
>> right
>> as well. But basically the the core idea
here is people do not have enough
information to make all the decisions
they need to make. Some of it because
they can't actually understand the
technology you're building or you're
keeping it hidden from them. Some of it
just because it's simply not available.
But they still need to make all these
decisions in the absence of sufficient
data. And so they'll start using all
sorts of incomplete deduction and and
mental shortcuts. and you you can direct
these mental shortcuts.
>> I want to switch gears a little bit
before we get into some of your
frameworks. I want to talk about
practical insights that the office
worker uh who's listening to this can
use whose primary job might be, you
know, email presentations, briefing
notes.
>> What advice would you give them?
>> Yeah, there's a there's a macro and a
micro. So, I'll start with the macro.
The same way that um a founder needs to
project an image of themselves and an
image of their company and what they're
doing, any person in any realm of their
life needs to project an image of
themselves. So I am you might project an
image of yourself as a
spouse or as a friend or as a business
partner or as an employee but in every
scenario the 40 billion data points
about you as a fully rounded
three-dimensional person is way
overwhelming. Nobody actually brings
their full selves to work. It's
literally impossible.
So you can either
half-hazardly let people see whatever
they can make out from the random data
points you give them or you can be
intentional and strategic about which
ones you present. So let's say that
there's 10 million things about you that
are true and in the work context your
boss and your colleagues are going to
remember like two and and it's not
because people are stupid. It's just
because we don't hold that many things
in our mind at the same time.
>> Yeah.
>> Like if I tell you Steve Jobs or Okay.
creative visionary, Stanford speech,
died early. If I said name 20 things
about Steve Jobs,
>> you would falter past like five. And
this is one of the best known people,
right? If I said name 40 things about
Trump, you you you struggle. So at any
given time, there's a very small number
of things that people actually retain
about us. And we can either be haphazard
or we can be intentional.
So at a macro level, I would say just as
an employee in any role, as an employee,
as a friend, be intentional about what
you want those things to be. And then
present proof points and foster that.
And obviously it should be uh tethered
to reality. It should be authentic. It
can't be like totally fabricated, but it
can be a conscious decision of this is
the best side of me in the workplace.
What's an example of that that comes to
mind?
>> So, if you are Okay, give me uh give me
an example of someone who works
somewhere. Give me give me um a
hypothetical employee.
>> Let's think about a VP working for a CEO
of a cyber security startup.
>> Okay. VP of what?
>> Let's do comms.
>> Okay. VP of comms. And what is the VP of
comms? You're the VP of comms.
>> I'm making this up. I
>> You're the VP of comms. What's your
career goal? to eventually probably
become CEO.
>> Okay. I actually, as an aside, I think
that more comps people should have a
path into a CEO role.
>> Um because that'll be one of the most
important things for a company to pull
off is being well understood.
>> So, I want to be CEO. Uh I've been
hired. I've been in my job for two
years.
>> Uh I know this guy's retiring or girl's
retiring in like 12 months.
>> Okay.
>> Uh do that. So think about the product
yourself that you are portraying. Your
goal is you want to be CEO.
The people who will decide that are
current CEO via the succession plan, the
board via executive appointment um and
personnel decisions and also your team
and colleagues via their feedback.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. So that's your audience. Now, what
does the audience need to believe about
you in order for them to want to make
that decision? Let's say they need to
believe that you have executive
presence,
>> that you have a vision for the company,
and that employees love you and they
would be stoked to work for you.
>> Okay, so now you want them to believe
these three things.
>> How do you convey that to them? Message,
>> medium, messenger. So, the message is
you believe that the future of the
company should be XYZ.
>> Yeah. If they agree with that, maybe
they should consider about having you
CEO. If they don't agree with that, then
probably you shouldn't be CEO, right?
But but this is what you truly believe.
You believe that the future of the
company should be XYZ. And here's the
role that employees will play in it.
What's the form in which you convey that
to them? You can write a memo. You can
make this you can start a new initiative
on your team. You can roll out a
campaign portraying the company that
way. You can um advocate for a new
partnership portraying the company that
way. You can start pointing the company
in that direction. You can start
identifying problems or obstacles for
the company being viewed in that way and
you can make sure that you're an
incredibly great boss to your employees
and that you're beloved and that the
messengers should be not just you saying
here's my vision but that there other
you uh convince other people on the
executive team to champion your vision.
Maybe collaborate with them. Maybe you
and the VP of product work together on
something. Maybe you and the VP of
engineering partner on some sort series.
Anyone can and everyone should be
strategic about the image of themselves
that they're presenting to the world and
the product that is themselves that
they're selling to any given market. So
if you're dating, you are a product for
a certain consumer,
right? If you are trying to get married,
you're a product for a certain consumer.
If you are looking for a job, you're a
product for a certain consumer. And if
you're trying to get a promotion, you're
a product for a certain consumer. If
you're founder, very obvious, you're a
product for a certain consumer. For
people to accept the job offer, for
people to invest in you, for people to
buy the thing that you made. So, let's
say that you are a mid-level
designer and you're trying to get
promoted to the next level up.
Okay, your goal is to be promoted. You
know that there's a goal. There's comms
is a vector, not a scaler. There's
magnitude. There's also direction. You
know the direction you want to go. Your
goal is to get that promotion. Your
audience is your manager and your skip
level.
And maybe your peers because they're
part of giving you a 360 review. You
know your goal. You know your audience.
What they need they need to believe
about you. They need to believe that you
can manage people
>> and that you have vision for what should
be done. and they believe that you are
going to be at this company for a really
long time. Okay. Now, how do you convey
that to them? You can convey it to them
through things that you write and
create. You can convey it in the goals
that you set for yourself. You can
convey it in how you speak to your
peers. You can convey it in products uh
or projects that you kick off, in the
initiative that you bring to new ideas.
And the messengers are not only you but
your peers, your partners, you know,
anyone trying to get a promotion kind of
has a very similar template here. But
with anything you want in life,
anything you want in life, when you have
a goal, there are people whose
permission you need for that goal to
happen. Whether you're trying to date or
get married or get a promotion or start
a company or fund raise or sell a
product, there are people whose buy in
is required for you to meet that goal.
Unless your goal is like climb a
mountain or something like that, go
train for a mountain. But in order to
get the people to
give you that buy in, you need to
convince them certain things and you
need to be intentional of how you
present a story to get them to believe
that. And this is something that we
probably really underutilize. I mean
people whose literal job is only
communications don't even think that
way. So I don't take it for granted that
somebody who's really busy with other
things should think that way. But I
think everybody should in any context in
your life. You are a product that you
are selling to a certain consumer. I
love that. So that's the macro. What
about the micro in terms of like how do
I make my presentation better, my email
better, my like what are the the tips
and tricks that you've learned that you
wish everybody knew?
>> It goes back to what are you trying to
say?
People worry way too much about the form
factor and not enough about what they
want to say. And so whether it's an
email or a text or a phone call or a
presentation, know the thing that you
want to say, say that. Then say why they
should care. And if you can do that,
you've won. like the the vast the vast
majority of presentations or emails that
are sent are more like I need to check
the box and just get this thing done so
I can move on with my day to do I guess
more of these but there isn't a clear
view of this thing that has taken up 5
seconds of someone's time had a goal and
did you achieve that goal or not?
>> I like that a lot. I think most people
don't even think about what they're
trying to convey. They just sort of like
do a brain dump and then they give too
much information and then people don't
know what to pull out of it or they
don't have enough time to make the
message short.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and so they're giving it's just
really hard to communicate that way. And
>> and just use normal words too. Like just
use normal words, please. Normal words.
Just use words where everybody knows
what they mean. Sometimes there's like a
very specific word that I'm not saying
never use jargon. By the way, if you're
talking to other people in the industry,
jargon is a word that they all know what
it means. So, you can use that because
they all know what it means. If you're
talking to six-year-olds, you obviously
wouldn't use jargon. So, it's not about
categorically always use this, never use
that. It's about use words that the
other person is going to know.
>> You did your MA at Yale uh in
counterterrorism
>> uh at the at the Fletcher School at TUS.
It's a law and diplomacy school. A lot
of diplomats go there. I studied
counterinsurgency.
>> And your thesis was on narration as soft
power.
>> I didn't have to do one big Oh, yeah. I
Yes. Okay. I I wrote a bunch of things
while I was there. But the the main
takeaway I have from that time is that
when you look at insurgent groups, you
can actually learn a lot of lessons that
apply to startups. right here is
something that is formed either from
nothing or from something very small
going up against something very big
going up a against a status quo.
I obviously don't support terrorist
tactics or insertion tactics or violent
extremism but I mean the idea of trying
to change the status quo, change the
power structure and create a new normal,
it's incredibly hard to do. And in no
context is it harder to do than in a
country when the government and usually
it's not a government like ours. Usually
it's like an authoritarian regime that
is all powerful, has a monopoly on so
many things including force that you and
a scrappy band of little bandits are
going to say we're going to go replace
them. It sounds absolutely insane. And
now to get your first 50 followers, you
have to go around and tell people here's
the thing. We're going to replace the
government with us and we're going to be
the new government and they have the
military and we have these four guys and
me and we're going to win and you should
join us because we're going to succeed
and maybe you'll die but I'm pretty sure
we can do this like you should
definitely come with us. That pitch is
insane and it works. And so studying why
it works and what it takes to do that I
think is very instructive because for a
startup you're saying okay we're going
to take on Google and we're going to be
the next Google and we're going to be
bigger than them and our company is
going to be worth trillions of dollars
and our market is in the quadrillions.
And if you look at Google now they're
nothing compared to what we're going to
be and it's Yeah. It's just me and one
other guy
>> in my garage.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Our office is my house and
it's just me and him, but it could be
you. We have Wi-Fi. We have like $50,000
and some of it is from my parents and
you could join. Uh what's your pay? Like
uh I we can't pay you right now, but
like we'll pay you something and then
we'll pay you more when we're able to
get to it.
>> How do you get that person to join and
that person is going to leave like Open
AI or something and go do that? It
actually sounds insane, but there's
something.
It's irrational, but there's something
like super rational, like something that
supersedes rationality
that actually
takes another circuit in their brain.
You know, it's like the amygdala hijack
of the prefrontal cortex, but on a much
bigger long-term scale where the thing
that makes sense once you start to see
the world through this new prism that
I've convinced you to look at it
through, the old thing actually doesn't
make sense anymore. And in the new world
that you can see that I painted for you,
my thing makes sense. You have to join
my thing. This is when you see people at
a less extreme level. This is when you
see people that take a pay cut to go do
something they really believed in. I
took a big pay cut to go join Substack.
I mean, they paid really well. It's just
that I was a, you know, a company owner
before that and never regretted. I'm so
happy I did that. There have been
projects that I've done for free or for
a dollar that I've been so happy to have
been involved in. And sometimes you do
the thing that doesn't make immediate
sense because it's something you believe
in. And if someone can make you believe,
if someone can make you believe, they
can
circumvent the obvious logic in the
moment and sign you on to something
bigger. And this is how startups take
off. Every great startup was two guys in
a garage and then three people and then
they get one person and then they they
get Wi-Fi at some point, you know, and
it go and it goes from there. It every
startup sounds insane. There's like a
talent collection aspect to it in a way
which is like an unfair advantage. If
you can collect talent, you can convince
them to join. If in this situation where
I'm giving you what by all accounts
would be an irrational promise and
message,
>> I can convince you to come join me.
>> There's a talent to recruiting the
rebels.
>> Yeah.
>> But you will never recruit them through
a spokesperson. And you will never
recruit them if you don't look them in
the eye and tell them in the first
person that you're going to keep your
promises and you're going to deliver
this for them or you're going to die
trying, but it'll hopefully be the
former.
>> Yeah, definitely. One of the things you
said that got my attention in a previous
interview was that you have second
strike capability. What does that mean?
Unpack that for me.
>> It's it it goes it relates to to
deterrence. So, you might not want to be
the aggressor. You might not want to be
out instigating and starting fights, but
you want to establish that you're not a
soft target. And being a hard target can
look a bunch of different ways. So, at
Shopify, one of the things that we're
really proud of, I'm on the board and we
have this wonderful general counsel,
Jess. One of the things that we've been
really proud of at the company is that
Shopify has been in the past a victim of
patent trolls that just go over. They
just go out to companies and attack them
and then they settle and then they get
money that way. And Jess and her very
strong team have decided that they're
going to fight it every single time. And
in the short term, super expensive, huge
pain. Again, you you take the pain up
front so that you don't have to live
with chronic pain for the rest of your
life. You get the surgery now so that
you don't have to deal with it. And
now Shopify gets no patent trolls. Zero.
Zero. And so just establishing yourself
as a hard target. Or we talked before
about Palmer and if you cross him in any
meaningful way, he will guaranteed hit
back. He will not let it stand. As a
matter of principle, it doesn't matter
legal advice, doesn't matter PR, but
like he won't let it stand. You need to
have something about you that's a little
bit spiky. It'll be hard to step on and
if you can establish that upfront, you
will make the rest of your life so much
easier.
>> I like that idea a lot. And I think for
you it was uh it's not tit for tat. It
was tit for two tats.
>> Tit for two tats. So when people study
game theory and I think this is an axle
rod idea where it's actually written up
as from a series of experiments which is
people think of game theory as things
like prisoners dilemma and when do you c
you know when do you cooperate versus
defect and there's a term called tit
fortat but in a repeated game where it's
not just you meet each other once and
leave you know prisoners domain all
these games uh that we talk about a lot
it's like a one-time thing with someone
you don't know and then you
If you and I knew each other for a
really long time and then we had
prisoners dilemma that might go
differently, right? Like the pure
rationality in the moment gets
superseded by other factors. We believe
in each other. We believe in some larger
cause, right? It's like what we were
talking about earlier. It's the hijack
of the prefrontal cortex where the thing
that makes obvious sense in the moment
is not the thing that people choose
because you've given them something
bigger to believe in. Similar here. So
if you have a one-time game, okay, tit
for tat. If you have a repeated game of
long-term relationships and repeated
interactions, the optimal strategy is
actually tit for two tats. And um what
that means is you can cross me once and
maybe I'll let that go, but if you cross
me the second time, I never will. And
that is optimal balance between
cooperation and deterrence.
>> How does intent figure into that? Like
do you figure malicious intent into the
tats?
>> Yeah. Well, intent depends on trust and
if you know the person. So, trusting the
person and knowing the person and
whatever your view and the model of that
person is is one of those things that
can override the immediate short-term
logic of something. So, for example,
going back to recruiting for a startup
in the very early days, okay, it's just
me and one other guy. We're going to
beat Google. Do you want to join us?
Everything about that speaks
like hallucinogenic liar and um nothing
about that sounds real except if you
know me and you know that when I say I'm
going to do something I do it. Even in
cases in the past when it seemed crazy I
said I'm going to do I'm going to do it.
Now I'm going to say I'm going to do
this other thing. That's something that
supersedes the immediate obvious
rationality of the moment to get you
believe in something bigger. And
sometimes the something bigger is the
person.
>> Yeah,
>> there are definitely people who you see
jo like I see this right now people
leaving really comfortable jobs or
offers to join something where they
don't actually know what it'll be in a
year but they're joining because they
believe in the person and if that person
is involved it'll probably work out.
Like there there are people now who are
thinking about starting a company and
people are basically offering them blank
term sheets. I don't know what I'm
investing in. I'm investing in you.
Whatever you do, here's here's some
money. I'm sure it'll work out.
>> I think that's a great place to wind up
this interview. We always end I mean I
could go on for another two hours
talking to you. Uh we always end with
the same question, which is what is
success for you?
>> Success for me is to open source a lot
of what we're talking about here.
Specifically, the idea that you can
control your destiny. You can create
alternate realities. You can bend
reality. Reality is subjective anyway,
right? You can bend it to your favor if
you're able to communicate to people who
matter in the ways that strike them in
the heart and in the mind to get them to
see the world the way that you do so
that you can come together and do
something that doesn't make sense in the
moment but does make sense longer term.
And if and open sourcing this means that
people understand that they can just go
and do this. They don't need to hire me.
They don't need to hire consultants.
They don't need to hire a team. They can
like anything in the world is is better
with friends. You can have people help
you with it. But you don't need to wait
for anybody else. You can just take
control of your destiny by deciding here
is where I'm going to go. Here's the
direction I need to go in order to
achieve this specific goal. and I'm
going to bend reality until I can get
there.
>> That's awesome. We're gonna have to do
part two of this at some point.
>> Super fun.
>> This was amazing. Thank you for coming
on.
>> Thank you.
>> You've just spent your most valuable
asset with me, your time. My commitment
to you is that you get the best possible
return on that investment moving
forward. Subscribing and hitting that
thumbs up button ensures my team and I
can continue to bring you amazing
conversations like the ones on your
screen right now. Until next time.